.TH LAVALITE 7 "October 2025" "Lavalite 0.1.0" "Lavalite Manual"
.SH NAME
lavalite \- Overview and philosophy of the Lavalite scheduler
.SH DESCRIPTION
Lavalite is a clean, high-throughput job scheduler designed for clusters that prioritize volume over parallelism. It excels at managing thousands of short, independent jobs with minimal overhead.

Unlike Slurm, which focuses on tightly coupled MPI workloads, Lavalite is optimized for high-throughput computing (HTC), including job arrays, embarrassingly parallel tasks, and data-intensive pipelines. It is also well-suited for AI workflows such as distributed training, hyperparameter sweeps, and inference orchestration.

.SH ORIGINS
Lavalite is inspired by OpenLava 2.2 and the legacy of Platform LSF, but rebuilt from a clean GPLv2 foundation. It avoids legacy entanglements and silent behavior, focusing instead on clarity, reproducibility, and maintainability.

.SH INSTALLATION
Lavalite uses an explicit install flow:

.IP
make install

This installs Lavalite under \fB/opt/lavalite-<version>\fR in a self-contained directory. Configuration files follow LSF-style naming conventions (e.g., \fBlsf.conf\fR, \fBlsb.modules\fR) for compatibility, but behavior is documented and deterministic.

.SH DOCUMENTATION
Man pages are the primary source of documentation:

.IP
man bsub
.br
man lsf.conf
.br
man lsb.modules

.SH COMPATIBILITY
Lavalite preserves compatibility with LSF-style configuration and commands, including \fBbsub\fR and \fBlsf.conf\fR. Unsupported or deprecated keys are ignored with warnings. Behavioral differences are documented in the relevant man pages.

.SH PHILOSOPHY
Lavalite is built for sysadmins and contributors who value:

.IP

\[bu] 2
Explicit install flows
.IP

\[bu]
Deterministic job behavior
.IP

\[bu]
Audit-friendly batch library
.IP

\[bu]
Clean daemon architecture
.IP

\[bu]
Git hygiene and CI sanity

.SH CONTACT
Project email: \fBlavalite@lavalite-compute.io\fR

.SH VERSION
Lavalite 0.1.0 (pre-release)

